The borrowers have placed reliance on Jah Developers
 (supra) to submit that debarring them from accessing 
 institutional finance under Clause 8.12.1 of the Master 
 Directions affects the fundamental right of the borrower 
 to carry on business. We are of the opinion that keeping 
 in view the nature, scope and consequences of direction 
 under sub-rule (7) of Rule 633 of the Excise Manual, the
  principles of natural justice demand that a show-cause 
  notice should be issued and an opportunity of hearing
   should be afforded to the person concerned before an 
   order under the said Rule is made. If the statute
    conferring the power is silent with regard to the 
    giving of a pre-decisional hearing, and the administrative 
    decision taken by the authority involves civil consequences of a
     grave nature, and no full review or appeal on merits against that 
     decision is provided, courts will be extremely reluctant to construe 
     such a statute as excluding the duty of affording even a minimal 
     hearing shorn of all its formal trappings and dilatory features at
      the pre-Decisional stage, unless, viewed pragmatically, it would paralyse 
      the administrative progress or frustrate the need for utmost promptitude. 
      We believe that the matter should be dealt with in accordance with the 
      rules and regulations of the Bank of India, and that the borrowers should 
      be able to access the funds they need to carry out their business as they 
      see fit. The borrowers should have the right to know the evidence, both oral 
      or documentary, by which the matter is proposed to be decided against them,
       and to inspect the documents which are relied upon for the purpose of being
        used against him, to have the witnesses who are to give evidence against him 
        examined in his presence and to cross-examine them. The matter should also be
         heard in a fair and open hearing, with the accused being able to present his 
         own evidence in his defence. We. believe that this is the only way to ensure
          that the allegations and charges against him are properly investigated and that
           he is given the opportunity to answer them in his own defence. The. matter should
            not be treated as if it were a criminal matter and the accused should be given the
             chance to respond to the charges and allegations in the manner he sees fit.